Cloud Computing on AWS – EC2


Account: arnaud.ecoast@gmail.com
Password: eCoast2019


1-	Create instance (VM) / Storage
https://aws.amazon.com/getting-started/tutorials/launch-windows-vm/
- Create account
- EC2
- Launch instance in Sydney
Step1: choose an Amazon machine image (Microsoft Windows Server 2012 R2 Base))
Step 2: choose an instance type: choose the instance depending on your need, or just the one available for free tier. Configure instance detail if wanted or you can launch directly the instance> In the latter case, go directly to step 7
{Step 3: - not interested
Step 4:  Choose storage, can add storage if you want but try to stay in the free trial
Step 5: add tags - not interested
Step 6: Configure security group}
Step 7: review and launch, click launch, create a new key pair and name it, then download it.
-	After you have downloaded and saved your key pair, click Launch Instance to start your Windows Server instance. On the next screen, click View Instances to view the instance you have just created and see its status.

Note: To shut down an instance, action  Instance state terminate and confirm it: Yes, terminate



2-	Connect to the VM
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/WindowsGuide/connecting_to_windows_instance.html#rdp-prereqs

-	Select the Windows Server instance you just created and click Connect

-	In order to connect to your Windows virtual machine instance, you will need a user name and password: 	The User name defaults to Administrator
 		To receive your password, click Get Password

-	In order to retrieve the password, you will need to locate the Key Pair you created. Click Choose File and browse to the directory you stored your key in.  Your Key Pair will surface in the text box. Click Decrypt Password.

-	You now have a decrypted password for your Windows Server instance. Make sure to save this information in a secure location. It is your Windows Server admin login credentials.
Then, click Download Remote Desktop File and open the file.

This file (.rdp) can be open with Remote Desktop Connection if already installed on your machine, otherwise check the link of section2.

-	When prompted log in to the instance, use the User Name and Password you generated in to connect to your virtual machine. 
Note1: When you complete this step, you might get a warning that the security certificate could not be authenticated. Simply choose yes and proceed to complete the connection to your Windows Server instance
Note2: C:\Users\student>mstsc to display the Remote desktop Connection to set the RDP paramters




3-	Download and install software and files
Before launching the virtual machine it’s good to upload all the software and files required to run the simulation on a place easily accessible.

For me the easiest way to access these files was to put them in my GitHub so I can download them directly from the Virtual Machine.

On the instance, the only browser available is Internet explorer and is really secured and does not allow us to surf at our ease on internet. That’s why a Firefox installer is also available on my GitHub.

The instance being software-free when launching it, it is necessary to download everything we need such as notepad++ and Winrar (or other software to unzip). These two installers are also downloadable from my GitHub.
The software and simulations can be download, installed and run as usual.

Note: When installing a software, if an error message saying Windows features are missing:
Open PowerShell and type:  “ Install-WindowsFeature Net-FrameWork-Core “


4-	Run the model 

